# Project-523
Small Hydro Power Project in Panwi, Himachal Pradesh

Scale of the project activity Small Scale

Project participants Ascent Hydro Projects Ltd (AHPPL) (Project
Proponent)

Host Party India

Applied methodologies and standardized
baselines
Applied Baseline Methodology:
AMS-I.D : “Grid connected renewable electricity
generation”, version 18

Standardized Methodology: Not Applicable.

Sectoral scopes 01 Energy industries
(Renewable/Non-Renewable Sources)
____________
The proposed project tile under UCR is “Small Hydro Power Project in Panwi, Himachal Pradesh”,
which is a grid connected Hydro Electric Power project located in Kinnaur district in the state of
Himachal Pradesh (India). The project is an operational activity with continuous reduction of GHG,
currently being applied under “Universal Carbon Registry” (UCR).

The proposed project activity is promoted by Ascent Hydro Projects Ltd (AHPPL) (herein after called
as project proponent ‘PP’). The proposed project activity is installation and operation of 2 Pelton
Hydro Turbine Generators having individual capacity 2000 kW with aggregated installed capacity
of 4 MW in District - Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh state of India. This project activity is also called as
small hydroelectric power (SHEP) project.

The water from the stream is diverted by means of a trench weir. The diverted water from the stream
is conducted by means of a water conductor system into the forebay tank. Water then leaves the
forebay and is guided by penstock into the power house. The power house contains 2 nos. of Pelton
Wheel type, horizontal shaft turbines and synchronous generators with alternating current to generate
electrical energy. The two units have a longitudinal arrangement parallel to the length axis of the
power house.

This project activity is promoted by Ascent Hydro Projects Limited (AHPL) which is a 100%
subsidiary company of Dodson Lindblom International Inc (DLI), an Ohio based company that
specializes in the engineering and development of infrastructure projects with particular emphasis on
hydroelectric power generation. The generated power from the project activity is sold to “Himachal
Pradesh State Electricity Board” through “Northern, Eastern, Western, and North-Eastern” (NEWNE)
regional grid.

The project activity is a Greenfield activity. There were no other renewable energy power plants at
the project site prior to the implementation of the project. However, electricity delivered to the grid
by the project activity would have otherwise been generated by the operation of fossil fuel based gridconnected power plants and by the addition of new generation sources in the grid.
The project activity has been commissioned on 09/05/2013 and has started its commercial production.
The project activity has been registered under UNFCCC on 15/08/2015 with “CDM project ID 10183
Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net electricity generation i.e., 21,193.35
MWh from the Indian grid system, which otherwise would have been generated by the operation of
fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants. The estimated annual CO2e emission reductions by
the project activity are expected to be 19,074 tCO2e.
________
PRIOR HISTORY

UNFCCC CDM: Project 10183 : Small Hydro Power Project in Panwi, Himachal Pradesh

Project title	Small Hydro Power Project in Panwi, Himachal Pradesh

CDM Registration Date:	15/08/2015
_______________
Requests for Issuance and related documentation	
______________
Monitoring report: 15 Aug 2015 - 31 Aug 2016 

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested from 01 Jan 2013 until 31 December 2020: 16855

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-226316095-2-2-0-10183   ---   Block end: IN-5-226332949-2-2-0-10183
____________

Monitoring report: 01 Sep 2016 - 31 Dec 2017 

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested from 01 Jan 2013 until 31 December 2020: 21812

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-249963124-2-2-0-10183  ---    Block end: IN-5-249984935-2-2-0-10183
______________________

Monitoring report: 01 Jan 2018 - 31 Mar 2019 

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested from 01 Jan 2013 until 31 December 2020: 17273

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-255822017-2-2-0-10183   ---   Block end: IN-5-255839289-2-2-0-10183
______________

Monitoring report: 01 Apr 2019 - 31 Dec 2020 

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested from 01 Jan 2013 until 31 December 2020: 35132

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-295958261-2-2-0-10183 ----    Block end: IN-5-295993392-2-2-0-10183
_______________



